The Joe Rogan experience.
Of called up by the Donald Trump of gangster over and over again. And I,
and I say that because there's a gangster inside of me.
I got to reconquer concrete every day.
So I know gangsters when I see you and gangsters,
not a subjective expression,
it's an objective condition of you grabbing a woman's parts. That's gangster,
you stealing somebody's oil, another country that's gangster you lines.
And these people have said that the America's garbage quit line that's gangster.
They got a critique of America.
You did two in American carnage and your integration, you said,
or you're talking about the full sisters in Congress,
then we'll all evil Jews know Dan said evil
Jews. They said evil doings of Israel.
Every nation state has dumped some evil things, right?
If there's a Palestinian state, which I hope there is,
they're going to do some evil things. Every nation state has to be accountable.
You is UPO, bill Guatemala, Israel, China,
and so forth and so on.
And every nation state has been associated with certain forms of barbarism.
We know that, but there's some good things, some wonderful things about Israel,
some wonderful things about Palestinians and formation, creating a state.
That's wonderful things about America. I mean, a lot of people say,
even brother Trump wall, they hate America.
Now they love American comics.
They love American music. You asked sister Talia,
you asked us the priestly. Y'all love a reefer.
I've read the Franklin means the world to me. What about Mary J?
Mary J means the world.
Mary J and Aretha are as American as Donald Trump.
Even more in some ways,
because they've been here longer that people have been there.
10 generation Donald Trump's grandfather just arrived.
His mother straight from Scotland, precious Maryanne, 1930. She arrived.
Right? And so in that sense, you say, wait, wait a well, quit lie.
And let's just be honest and candid, just like the comics.
Let's just be honest and candid and recognize.
Cause what is the definition of comedy? It is first drama,
which is conflict emotionally felt and re critically
reflected upon. But it's that conflict that's rooted in,
in congruency things don't fit.
So there's the possibility of hypocrisy, right?
And we know hypocrisy is attribute of vice to virtue.
So that just standards and you fall short. So you can laugh at it.
Now when it's really deep, comedy is talking about the human condition.
See, that's a deeper thing. Now see,
that's where you get checked off and Shakespeare and joys and the blues
because deep comedy is the recognition of limits than
in congruency at the highest levels of the mind, heart and soul.
That's the different thing. So I mean, you can start with comedy with, uh,
you know, the clown who was, who was walking around,
slipping on bananas or the sophisticated professor who doesn't realize
that he got a banana hanging out the back of his pocket.
When he's lecturing with the students, everybody laughing,
he don't know what's going on. Well, that's bodily based comedy,
farts and bananas and so forth. And it's it's important. Yes,
but high comedy is the highest levels of human.
Dignity, love,
thought music, mathematics, metaphysics,
and then recognize all of those are in congruence.
They're broken, they're fractured,
there's dramatic conflict of incongruity at the highest
levels of who we are as a species.
Now that's deep stuff that is deep stuff. Oh Lord, Lord.
And one of the most fundamental questions in Western civilization is how come
Socrates never cries and Jesus never laughs.
Ooh.
And that's the question Thomas Moore was wrestling with in the tower of London
before he was executed in his dialogues or tribulation,
Socrates never shed the tear. What does that mean?
The founder of philosophy in the modern west has a love of
wisdom,
but he never loves people because it's impossible to love human beings and not
shed tears. Wow. You go to your momma's funeral and you're not shedding tears.
And you're committed to the Socratic ideal of self-mastery and self control.
You need to get off the crack pipe, get off show heart,
the depths of your love for her through being outside of your self-mastery,
the tears will flow. You said, and it could stay all the way.
It's like your daughter,
this precious thing that you got when we walk in for your daughter,
when she graduates you and your wife is going to have tears of joy.
That at the moment for self mastery, that's not the moment to be so critic.
And so when Socrates's dying, his wife walks into Zen tippy and she's crying.
He's to get her, I'll get away, get him. I can't stand to use that as a problem.
Yeah. That's the problem. See, I come from Blackfoot, we start with tears,
all the mess we had to come to terms with, you know what I mean,
cries and so forth.
The Hebrew scripture begins with the Christ will press people to write,
but then Jesus never laughs. Ooh, I see. That's a deep one. That is a deep one.
That's GK Chesterton. Chesterton said,
Jesus turns over the tables of the money changes.
He does not conceal his rage. Crucial.
Jesus does weep.
That's one of the most profound verses in the Christian Bible, right?
Jesus wept. Unlike Socrates, why did Jesus weep?
He wept for Jerusalem. He wept for Lazarus. He left wept for his friends,
but Jesus hides and conceals his mirth. That's what Chesterson says.
Is there any laughter in the Bible? Well, Isaac means laughter.
When you think of joke of an oldest,
Sarah given birthed to a young person in an older age and so forth,
but it's hard to catch Jesus laughing.
None of the synoptic gospels have Jesus laughing.
Some people thought they discerned a grin somewhere because he turned wine into
water. He probably had a little rant on it.
Exactly, exactly. But uh, uh,
but you can never get the full scale and variety of the human
condition in any one tradition.
I think one of the beauties of what you're saying here,
one of the beautiful things about what you're saying here is the complexity of
human beings. And when you're dealing with the situation between these girls,
that call themselves a squad and Donald Trump and you deal with these very
simplistic things like these chance of send her back or lock her up
or they hate America. Or you know, this,
this is simplifying things is,
is so attractive to some people and so attractive during political discourse.
Right? Do during these, these times,
when you're trying to rally up a campaign and get, get,
get the audience behind you, this is when these simplistic things resonate.
But as a human being, we know that things like I don't, I don't,
I don't subscribe to this idea that human beings are good or
bad. I think there's yeah. There's,
I'm sure like the way Donald Trump loves his family.
I'm sure there's love in that guy. I'm sure there are.
Oh, I mean he's had some, you know,
relations to his mother and his brothers and sisters that were not ones of sheer
manipulation of domination is no doubt as a human being.
And it's important to keep track of his humanity. Uh, but at the same time,
what happens is the dominant patterns of behavior.
This is what worries me about brother Trump's best lead.
The fact that he's head of the American empire and handed the government.
You see that when you have dominant patterns of behavior that are completely on
accountable, see for so long,
he's been able to get away with things with no accountability at all.
Yes. That's what makes him a kind of a Peter pan like figure.
Until he became president.
She grew up powerful, but he hadn't grown up. But even as president,
he hasn't grown up. People had thought that he would grow into the office.
Now he just hasn't grown up. You know, he's still.
Uniquely tried to manipulate the office position to change, to be what he is.
That's right. And I think people love that. There's certain people that,
that resonates with them. They think that's so attractive. They love.
Well, they, I think they love it cause it's expense that,
I mean, the first thing that Trump was able to do was to expose the
prepackage commodities that we call politicians,
that he came across as somebody who was just himself. Yes.
You see just gangster. Daddy is, and he'd just tell the truth.
Oh, I was a close friend of Hillary's.
I was been at the same weddings and so forth because that's how the elite
circulate in American empire.
But then when they discovered lo and behold,
he's now he's posing himself as some kind of oppositional figure.
And yet he tied the big money tied the big military when he gets in,
he brings in the old school militarist people he's
deal dropping bombs on the nine countries that had been dropped in bounds for
the last number of years.
Tax cuts sound exactly the same that Mitch McConnell and others
wanted. We thought we had something different here. You see,
and it has to do with the well when Mr. Larger story,
we have to be honest about this, that, um,
see we live in both a very fragile and
precious experiment in democracy.
And we live in an empire that is experiencing profound
decline,
decay and deterioration simultaneous.
So he confronted very beginning and understates was really in some ways,
much more tied to gold and resources and
land.
And so this really crucial democratic experiment is
predicated on the monstrous crime against indigenous peoples that we've never
come to terms with.
So you get a lot of Neo liberal chatter about America's original Slint
slavery. That's a lie.
The original sin was we had to decide whether we were going to co-exist with
indigenous peoples or dominate them.
And the decision was for the most part genocidal effect in terms of
domination. So it's a settler colonial society, a colony of Britain.
You see,
then we enslaved the Africans who become the basis of our economy.
And the vast majority of profits made were actually tied to
slavery.
That's why so many of the president's first presidents in America was slave
holders.
And the chief justice of the Supreme court was slave holders and so forth.
That that doesn't mean that certain democratic practices were not being enacted,
but it was inactive for white brothers would property,
the white brothers who had no property, they couldn't vote at all. The women,
of course couldn't vote until 1920.
And so he had domestic households in which they had to find some sense of
fulfillment.
That's what history of patriarchy and misogyny in part are connected.
And then tremendous efforts come to expanding it,
expanding it. And this is why even when brother Trump talks about socialism.
So he doesn't realize the pledge of allegiance was written by
Francis Bellamy, who was a socialist,
the song American, the beautiful, which was one of the most beautiful songs.
Ray, Charles, sing that song and take you to a different place. I mean,
he's seeing things that we can't see and you know, he's blind.
You know what I mean, America,
the beautiful and Elizabeth Lee Bates socialists,
professor Wellesley, who was our greatest poet, Walt Whitman,
Pete ties of socialism, who was our greatest philosopher, John Dewey,
democratic socialist, his whole life,
Helen Keller deaf mute blind graduate of
Radcliffe, socialists, Ryan whole neighbor,
the greatest Christian thinker to 20th century,
democratic socialist moral man at Memorial society. Martin Luther king Jr.
Democratic.
So Ella baker Democrat democratic socialism is as American as
apple pie,
but with the communists and the communist
threat and the Soviet union and all of its
repression and regiment,
tation and violation of liberties and killing of the cool and so forth in the
American mind, socialism becomes associated with communism.
So you saw brother Lindsey the other day, right? He looked like a cartoon,
his version of, of, of Joseph McCarthy.
They're all coming as they're all communists.
And you see what happens is in a Neo fascist discourse.
It's true anywhere around the world.
If you can define a community as pure and then characterize
those on the outside who were threatened as impure and didn't view
yourself as those coming to the rescue to preserve the purity,
it can be based on race. It can be based on religion.
It can be based on politics preserved at purity.
We saw it in the fifties with the hysteria,
the comments are what Smith act they're deported or they're taken to jail.
Make the first,
the first city Councilman from Harlem Benjamin Davis went to jail because he was
a communist. You see, because they were the impure.
Now communism needs to be radically called into question in
terms of its dominating forms like the Soviet union and China on the mile and so
forth and so on. But at the same time,
when you look at Karl Marx and his critique of capitalism,
this is prior to let it prior to styling, he says,
capitalism is tied to this obsession with profit that puts
profit before people.
And it will generate oligopolies in which there will be grotesque levels of
wealth inequality.
And the only way that porn working people will be able to gain access to any
resources to do organizing and mobilizing.
Now you can accept that marks is insight without being a Marxist. Pete,
just telling the truth. Do you think.
That socialism just hasn't been implemented correctly? Is that what you think?
Because like th the,
the argument has always been show me a socialist economy or socialist government
that ever worked. Right. Right.
But there's so many people that find the idea of socialism attractive
because it,
it combines this idea of a community with a nation and that we're all
tied together.
And we ha we obviously have some socialist aspects to our civilization in terms
of like utilities and.
The military outsource the military.
Firefighters. [inaudible].
There has to be some kind of governmental control, right.